JN Tus MINISTERS or THE Gosrm„ lxiii

To the two first remarks the reply is easy. For Jerome was re-
ferring to that time in which the Apostles had not yet ordained
Bishops properly so called, but retained to themselves those pri-
vileges which are now proper to Bishops. ln that interval the
same persons were called Bishops and Presbyters; and the Church
of Ephesus, Corinth, and others, were governed by their common
counsel; but so that the Apostles, being near, reserved to them-
selves the ordaining of Presbyters, and excommunicating of sin-
ners. But what certain learned men have thought, that this order
of governing churches, as it were by a senate of Presbyters, was
not changed, or one Bishop set over others, whilst the Apostles
were alive, is plainly repugnant to Scripture and Ecclesiastical
history. For it is certain that Timothy, Titus, James, and many
other Bishops, properly so called, were set over, and, as it were,

affixed to the churches of Ephesus, Crete, and Jerusalem, whilst -

the Apostles were alive. It is also certain, that those Asiatie
churches to which Christ wrote (Rev. ii.) had their own Bishops,
superior to Presbyters‚ whilst the Apostle John was living. Itis
no injury, therefore, to the dignity of Bishops‚ that Presbyters
did, for a short time, rule certain churches, with equal authority
and common eounsel: but it rather confirms the necessity of the
Episcopal office, seeing that that Presbyterial government rent
the churches with perpetual discords, even whilst the Apostles
were alive to witness it.

As to the last objection of Jerome, viz. that Bishops are greater
than Presbyters more by custom than any true appointment of the
Lord‚ it appears to press somewhat closer. But we answer, first,
that his words are not to be too closely pressed ; for he writes
differently in different placeS‚ and inconsistently, on this same
subject. Nevertheless, his words may be allowed in a sound
sense; since he may be understood to speak of tlte tales, not of
tlte offices: for custom, and not any appointment of the Lord‚ or
his Apostles, hath made the title of Bishop greater than that of
Presbyter. Or, Jerome may be -understood to speak of that au-
thority which Bishops had obtained over Presbyters in his age.
For this consisted, in a great degree, in privileges which had
been conceded to them by custom and the authority of couucils ;
but was not founded in any constitution of the Apostles Finally,
Jerome perhaps intended by the expression true appointment
of the Lord‚ an express command of our Lord in Scripture; and

