Ver. 4. ners'rmz το THE cohossmm. 371

false things are connected to true ones by their great like-
ness: whence it comes to pass that they are not distin-
guished by the unskilful, especially when aided by the art
of imp‘ostors, which is accustomed to draw the colom· of
truth over false things.

DOGMATICAL OBSERVATIONS.

l. In theological subjects it is not proper rashly to give
credit to reasonings, however plausible, which are not
built upon the word of God as their foundation τ for very
often they have a wonderful persaasiveness, when, never—
theless‚ they have no truth. That remark of Tertullian [in
his treatise] De anima, should be borne in mind, Build up
saith from tlt-es foundation. ¹

2. As the Spirit of Christ is to be acknovrledged the
inward teacher of those who preach the Gospel uncor-
ruptly3 so a crooked serpent is their master who impose
upon men by sophistical subtleties and this counterfeit.
persuasion. For that deceiver first employed this ente'cing
mode in Paradise, in beguiling the woman.

3. This is the aim of sophists in treating divine things,
To put forth their own opinions, not the word of God3 to
beguile men, not to edify them; to obtain the victory for
themselves, not that truth may conquer3 according to that
remark of Clemens, Strom. l, Opim'aliveness is the begin-
m'ng of coutentium, strq'fe tlte eff'ect of it, victory the end.

Thus far concerning the impostors and their weapon‚ viz.
false and counterfeit persuasion.

Verse 5.
For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I witlz you ln
the spirit, quing‚ and beholcling your order, and tlte
sledjhscness ‘ff yoursaz'tlz in Christ.

This is the other reason of the Apostle's solicitude for
the Colossians‚ taken from his inward affection towards
them; and contains in it an implied anticipation. For

nb?

